doc: Update Dragino LPS8 to LPS8N (#1194)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/models/dragino-lps8/_index.md

---
title: "Dragino LPS8N"
description: ""
weight:
aliases: [/gateways/dragino-lps8]
---

{{< figure src="dragino-lps8n.jpg" alt="Dragino LPS8N" class="float plain" >}}

The [Dragino LPS8N](https://www.dragino.com/products/lora-lorawan-gateway/item/200-lps8n.html/) is a LoRaWAN® indoor gateway based on the open-source OpenWrt Linux operating system. Its hardware is built around the SX1302 LoRa Core™ Digital Baseband Chip and the SX1250 LoRa Core™ Multi-band Sub-GHz RF Front End. The LPS8N provides ten programmable parallel demodulation paths. The gateway can be connected to the internet using Ethernet, WiFi, or optional Cellular (3G/4G) connectivity. It supports the EU868, IN865, US915, AU915, AS923, and KR920 frequency bands.

<!--more-->

> This page guides you on how to configure the Dragino LPS8N for adding {{% tts %}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page guides you on how to configure the Dragino LPS8N for adding on {{% tts %}}.
```

## Configuring the LPS8N

Navigate to the Web UI using one of the following addresses with a web browser:

- If you are connecting through the Wi-Fi access point generated by the LPS8N, use the default IP address `10.130.1.1`.
- If your LPS8N is connected to a router via Ethernet or Wi-Fi, use the address `http://IP_ADDRESS` or `http://IP_ADDRESS:8000`. Replace `IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address assigned to the LPS8N by the router.

When prompted for the sign-in, enter the username `root` and the password `dragino`.

{{< figure src="sign-in-lps8n.png" alt="Sign In" >}}

After signing in, you will be directed to the LPS8N's Web UI.

{{< figure src="web-ui-home-lps8n.png" alt="Web UI hime" >}}

Before proceeding with the next step, we assume you have set up internet access for the LPS8N using one of the following methods:

- Using the WAN port of the LPS8N
- As a WiFi client
- Using the built-in 4G modem

On the Web UI, navigate to **LoRaWAN > LoRaWAN** in the menu.

On the LoRaWAN Configuration page, configure the following settings:

> 1. **Service Provider**: `The Things Network V3`.

Reviewer: Remove dots at the end for points 1, 2, 4, 5, since they are not sentences

2. **Server Address**: `eu1.cloud.thethings.network`.
3. **Gateway ID**: This is the default Gateway EUI for LPS8N. You can keep it as is.
4. **Uplink Port**: `1700`.
5. **Downlink Port**: `1700`.

Copy the **Gateway ID** which you will need in the next step.

> {{< note "The LPS8N Web UI reffers to Gateway EUI as the Gateway ID, which is the Gateway EUI for {{% tts %}}." />}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note "The LPS8N Web UI refers to Gateway EUI as the Gateway ID." />}}
```

Select **Save & Apply**.

{{< figure src="lorawan-config.png" alt="LoRaWAN Configuration" >}}

## Adding LPS8N to {{% tts %}}

You can add the LPS8N gateway to {{% tts %}} by following the instructions on the [ Adding Gateways]({{< ref "/gateways/concepts/adding-gateways" >}}) page. The **Gateway EUI** should be the **Gateway ID** that you have copied from the LPS8N's Web UI.

{{< figure src="add-gateway.png" alt="Add Gateway" >}}

> Finally, test your connection by going to the LPS8N's **Overview** page. You should see the gateway status changed to 'connected' (indicated by a blue dot) or observe the frequently updating 'Last seen' time. Also, see the 'Live data' section for various gateway related activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, test your connection by going to the LPS8N's **Overview** page. You should see the gateway status changed to **connected** (indicated by a blue dot) or observe the frequently updating **Last seen** time. Also, see the **Live data** section for various gateway related activities.
```
